# Tutorial 3
---

## Objectives  
Practice using inheritance, polymorphism and javadocs.

## Submit

Submit a zip file with your `comp1406t3` folder and your `Animal`, `Cat`, `Dog`,  `Owl` classes. For full marks, you must complete everything up to and including problem 3 (Owl). I recommend you try and complete the rest. You will be tested on the javadoc tool and interfaces (either midterm or final exam).


---

# 1. Animal

Consider the `Animal` class provided. It is an abstract class to model animals. Read the class and see what it provides.

Override Object's `toString()` method in the `Animal` class so that it prints out the animals name and age.

Note: assuming your computer's clock is correct, we can get the current year in Java using

```
java.util.Calendar now = java.util.Calendar.getInstance();
int year = now.get(java.util.Calendar.YEAR);
```

---

# 2. Cat and Dog
The `Cat` and `Dog` classes should __extend__ the animal class. Add any needed constructors and methods to make these work.

Each class should have a constructor that takes a String (name) and integer (birth year) as input.

he noise that a cat makes should be `"meow"` or `"prrr"` (randomly chosen each time it's noise method is called), and the noise a dog makes should be `"woof"` if the dog 3 years or older and `"yelp"` otherwise.

Each class should override the `toString()` method inherited from `Animal` so that it outputs the same thing plus what kind of animal it is. For example, if the `toString()` (as inherited from `Animal`) returned `"kitty, 3"` then is should now output `"kitty, 3 (Cat)"` (if it was a Cat object). Do not use `instanceof` for this. Do not re-write code that you already wrote in `Animal`s `toString()` method. Hint: you should be using `super`.  

---

##  AnimalApp
The `AnimalApp` program generates an array of animals and calls the noise method of each. You can use this to test your `Animal`, `Cat` and `Dog` classes.


# 3.  Owl
Create an `Owl` class that extends the `Animal` class. The class should have a three-argument constructor that takes a string (name), an integer (birth year) and a boolean (that determines if it is a __wise__ owl or not). The string representation of an owl should include its name, age and whether or not it is wise or not.

An owl's noise is `"hoooo"`. An owl should have a getter for its _wisdom_ state. The method should be called `isWise()`/

Modify the `AnimalApp` program so that some owl objects are also created.

---
---

# 4.  JavaDocs


Look at the code in the `Animal` class.  You'll notice that the comments look slightly different. These comments are used by the _javadoc_ tool to generate html files that format the class API nively (just like on Oracle's website).

In order to generate the API files, from the same working directory where you
compile and run your tutorial code, type

```
javadoc -d comp1406t3\docs comp1406t3\Animal.java -author -version
```

This will create a new folder called `docs` in the `comp1406t3` folder.
Inside the `docs` folder is an `index.html` file. If you click on this file
it will open in a web browser. You can now see the `Animal` class's API.

Note: if you are using OS X or Linux, you will have to types

```
javadoc -d comp1406t3/docs comp1406t3/Animal.java -author -version
```

The API you are looking at was generated by the Javadoc tool, using the special comments in the `Animal` class. What is the Javadoc tool?  From wikipedia, we find

_Javadoc is a documentation generator from Oracle Corporation for generating API documentation in HTML format from Java source code. The HTML format is used to add the convenience of being able to hyperlink related documents together._


In your code, you can add a special comment block just __before__ a class, attribute, method or constructor
declaration.  This block of comments will be used in the generated API to describe whatever it is that the
comment blocks comes before.  There are some special tags that the Javadoc tool will read and use in this
comment block.  Here some simple rules

- The comment block must start with `/**` (two stars instead of 1) and end with `*/`
- The `@author` tag will list the author of the class or method
- For methods, each input argument should have an associated `@param` tag describing that input. (We can add pre-conditions on the argument here.)
- For method, the `@returns` tag is used to describe the output (and any post-conditions).
- You can use basic HTML tags to help format the text.  For example, `<code>main</code>` will format `main` in code format. Use `<p>` to start a new paragraph (with a blank line).


Read the Javadoc Comments and Javadoc Tags sections of the following short tutorial  

[http://students.cs.byu.edu/~cs240ta/fall2012/tutorials/javadoctutorial.html](http://students.cs.byu.edu/~cs240ta/fall2012/tutorials/javadoctutorial.html)


Skim through the Oracle documentation for writing Javadoc comments
[http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/documentation/index-137868.html](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/documentation/index-137868.html)


Add some Javadoc tags to your various animal (sub)classes.


---
---

# 5.  Extra
Create two new subclasses for each of the `Cat`, `Dog` and `Owl` classes. For each pair of new classes, have one introduce a new noise that is specific to that specific kind of cat, dog or owl.

# 6. Extra Extra

A _noise_ is something that other classes that have no relation to animal might also have. For example, cars makes a noise. It might have been a better idea to instead of having an _abtract_ method called `noise()` in the `Animal` class, we could have had an interface

```java
public interface Noise{
  String noise();
}
```

and had the `Animal` class implement this instead. Do this. Create the interface (3 lines above) and modify the `Animal` class (the class declaration line; comment out the the abstract `noise()` method).  Everything else should just work the same as before you made this change.
